this tutorial will demonstrate how to
create an account at Gateway Community
College navigate to my maricopa.edu
click create an account this will start
the meid account wizard and it'll list
several options for you the two that
you're really going to be concerned with
our I am a current or previous Maricopa
Community College District student or I
am a new student and have never attended
any Maricopa Community College if you
choose I am a current or previous
student it's important to note that you
may encounter an error this could happen
if you do have a previous account that's
inactive or there's some kind of
conflict with your name in either case
it's not going to let you complete the
account setup so you'll need to contact
someone at 602 2868 105 or send an email
to operator cert at gateway cc-ed you
indicate that you need assistance with
either activating or creating your
account for this example we're going to
use I am a new student and have never
attended a community college in Maricopa
in the code box below you should type
what image shows this case it's the word
clean scroll down to the bottom and
click Next on this page you'll need to
enter your identity information
beginning with your social security
number if you do not wish to provide
your social security number you can send
an email to operator cert at gateways
cc-ed you requesting that they create
your account you'll receive a form via
email to complete your information for
your account you'll also be required to
print and sign the form you do have the
option of faxing it to 6022 8686 14 or
feel free once you've signed it to scan
it and return it via email
to the operator search email mentioned
earlier we're going to go ahead and
complete the form with our information
first we're going to start by entering
our social security number please note
you should have no dashes or symbols
just the numbers enter it again and to
your birth date type your first name
your last name and the last two fields
are optional when you're done click Next
you now need to just confirm the
information you entered is correct if it
is accurate click OK if you need to edit
to have the option of doing that now I'm
going to click OK on this next screen
you need to enter additional information
about yourself choose your gender enter
your phone number indicate the type of
number it is type your current address
city state
and zip scroll down if your country is
different to your country you need to
enter your previous mailing address
scroll down more and here you're going
to put in your email address and
reconfirm it you can set your password
and reconfirm it you should click
requirement so it will display the
requirements for it you need to use
three of four criteria upper case lower
case number and some of the characters
that are on your keyboard once you've
determined your password type it in
click Next confirm your information to
verify that it's accurate click OK on
this page you're going to choose a
couple of questions security questions
and these are really helpful if you
forget your password you can answer
these questions which will then enable
you to reset your password on your own
without having to call IT support so
choose a question from the list for
question 1 type the answer choose
another question and type the answer
click Submit you will then get your
account information on the screen which
will include your meid your student ID
and your Maricopa email address please
write down your account information your
meid and password will be used to log in
to your account to complete admissions
and register for an exam you'll also
need the eight digit number here student
ID also known as college ID to complete
your exam enrollment this ID will be
used in the registration form that
you'll complete after you've paid your
registration fees as with any personal
account you should be very careful to
keep this information secure to protect
your identity once your account is
active you're ready to apply for
admissions refer to the apply for
admissions tutorial which will walk you
through the application process